and so for each and every one of you if
you all are stuck
start by planting the smallest positive
karmic seed you can
take whatever tiny action you can to set
yourself up for a better tomorrow it may
it may bear fruit it may not
but you are still going to act
all right today my dad told me i'm not
his son anymore i don't know if i can
upload this does that mean okay well
i'll vote
when i was 11 my family went through a
rough divorce a rough and long divorce
my father
has become abusive and heavily drug
dependent for a few years
i'm 19 now wow dude that sucks and the
last time i spoke to him was when i was
15. he's a top tier scientist and this
year after a lifelong passion
for all kinds of science i chose the
same career path as him
not because of him but because i my own
love for the thing
every three months i've
i have to send him an email and briefly
tell him if something is important like
my address
phone number changed
so i did that yesterday telling him that
i got accepted to the best university in
my country into a biochemistry course
the same course in school that he
attended and to be honest i i hoped a
little bit that he would reply and at
least say something slightly nice
he replied by calling me a mister
instead of my name told me that i am not
his son anymore and basically blamed the
whole divorce on me in a long and
hateful paragraph
i called my mom ouch dude shared the
mail with my girlfriend had it on the
back of my mind the whole damn day to be
honest even after being physically and
mentally abused for six years
straight getting sued by him multiple
times
literally watching trying to kidnap my
four-year-old sister this really hurts
and i don't even know why i care so much
the only thing i can do now is to cope
in a healthy way and this is what this
post is about i've decided to cope in a
healthy and mature way this time even
and even though my entire being
literally just wants to get drunk and
self-harm i'm not going gonna do it good
for you man or woman
i will visit my family instead spend
some time some extra time with my
girlfriend and cat and get some quality
alone time whatever just to relax and
clear my head so [ __ ] you dad and you
won't get the best of me this time
good for you being human sucks ass yeah
so this is this is also like a fantastic
post so like we're just going to talk
for a second i think it's a great final
post
so first thing is that like
yeah being human sometimes sucks us
and i think that this post is i don't
know if it's just because i've been
talking about spirituality but
i feel like talking about karma for a
second i think this post be beautifully
illustrates karma
so sometimes it's not your choice what
hand you're dealt right so this person
was born
to someone who sounds like they have a
substance use problem and are highly
narcissistic and uncaring and that sucks
and it hurts and it damages you like
that's just the truth of it right like
it's the truth if you have a parent who
blames you for their divorce who's
incredibly toxic who despite you know
all of that toxicity you try to do the
right thing you try to do your dharma
you try to be a good child and like
every three months at least give them an
update and try to maintain some kind of
connection with them first of all you're
not stupid for doing that you're not
weak for doing that i think it's doing
your dharma as you're as as a as a child
to a parent right it's important to try
to forgive and maintain
relationships at the same time i think
you've done your dharma right so your
dharma means making a solid effort
it doesn't mean making an effort until
the end of time
it means giving it your best shot and
recognizing that relationships are
two-way and enough is enough
it doesn't mean that you always have to
look for their approval and that if your
relationship sucks it means it's
continuously your fault and that you
need to continue trying
in my mind you've done a fantastic job
of trying to keep them in your life and
give them every chance to re-engage with
you and if they choose not to that is
the extent of your dharma you don't need
to ever send them an email again if they
ever reach out to you and they want to
express remorse you don't have to give
them an opportunity to apologize you
don't have to let them back into your
life you've given them a chance and they
chose to pass
they may try to make you feel guilty and
say like oh i deserve a chance and
you're they're right they do deserve a
chance and they had it they had several
chances
they had a year of chances and that boat
has sailed
you don't have to bring the boat back to
shore just because they're a few years
late
right that is dharma it is doing your
duty and also recognizing that your duty
is not bending over backwards
the second thing is this is a beautiful
example of karma
so it's not your choice who your dad was
and yet
you can take steps to
determine your future by the karma of
your present actions
right like in this person is doing a
beautiful job so in this moment
it's not their choice that their dad was
an abusive [ __ ] that's not something
so they get they get damaged by that
they get the abuse and they have to deal
with that [ __ ] it's unfortunate but it's
true
and then we all have choices right so
they have a choice right now that they
can self-harm or drink but instead
they're gonna spend time alone with
their girlfriend they're going to hurt
they're going to post on writing they're
going to spend time with their cat that
is a karmic choice which will then lead
to a karmic fruit
so i really love this post because i
think it exemplifies like these two
principles right these are just
frameworks for looking at this thing
the first is that you should do your
duty
and
also you should not do any more than
your duty
so one of my my most brilliant mentors
who i quote the most once told me that
the doctor who goes the extra mile for a
patient goes a mile too far
and you actually shouldn't go the extra
mile for a patient
you should go the mile that you're
supposed to go
right you should do your duty
and you shouldn't go an extra mile
because then you've got a mile too far
that the patient actually has
responsibility as well
right so like if your patient doesn't
show up on time should you give them
extra time maybe maybe not
if they show up late chronically should
you make adjustments maybe maybe not you
should do your duty and you should let
everyone else do theirs
the second principle here is karma which
is that you can't control
what happens to you what you can control
is what you do about it
you can't control for the pain like
that's gonna hurt right like and you
still want your your dad's approval
absolutely makes sense we all want our
dad's approval right like that's what we
want it's fantastic my dad passed away a
few months after i got into medical
school passed away one month before i
got married
and it was really great because like the
day that i got into medical school
he cried in a way that i had never seen
him cry before and it was like so like
wonderful because i knew he was proud of
me and then he passed away and he never
saw me get into harvard never saw me
become faculty never saw me become a
successful twitch streamer never saw any
of those things and i don't need him to
see because i got that one dose of like
solid approval that has stuck with me
right
and so to not get that absolutely sucks
but what we do with our negative karma
or our positive karma
has to do like that's our that's
that's our choice right as as a human
being you're entitled to your actions
you're not entitled to the outcomes of
your actions so i applaud this person a
hundred percent for venting some of
those feelings for processing a little
bit through writing that post for
recognizing notice what they're doing in
their mind they have a their thought
pops up there's a cultivation that's
very important here their mind says oh
let's go get drunk and self-harm because
i'm hurting and there's another part of
our our mind that says actually we're
not going to do that
we're going to spend time with our cat
we're going to spend time with our
girlfriend we're going to post on the
internet
we're going to process these emotions
we're going to build something out of
our life
it doesn't take the pain away
but it does sow seeds for the future
so for all of you who are in these kinds
of situations i don't blame you for
stupidly wanting the approval of your
parents
it's biologically built in it's
culturally built in you make think that
you're dumb but you're not dumb at all
it's very normal and natural to want the
approval of people who are abusive to
you it's why people stay in abusive
relationships it's how we're wired we as
human beings adore and need to be
appreciated and respected by people
especially the people that are like our
parents and that are close to us right
we can spend our whole lives very
understandably
chasing after the approval of our
parents
and so i do i think you should cut them
off with all ties and call them an
[ __ ] no i think you should actually
do your duty you should make an effort a
solid effort to forgive them and give
them another chance
and
that effort should be limited
right you should do your duty and
nothing more
and once that duty is passed
be able to sleep at night give yourself
a pat on the bat because you gave it a
shot right you extended your hand you
tried to repair the relationship and
they chose not to meet you there and so
then you don't have to do anything with
them anymore they're done
right they say they're dead to you
i think
they actually just knock themselves out
of your life
and so be it like you don't need to be
alive to them right your dad can
wallow in his drinking and his
hurt and his resentment he can hold on
to the past and blame a 10 year old for
a divorce like how stupid can you be
your dad gets to do all those things and
then you're gonna build the life that
you want to build and i commend you a
hundred percent for doing that
and so think a little bit about the
karma you can't control what happened to
you can't control the pain that life
throws your way
what you can control to some degree is
what you do about it and there are days
where the depression gets too bad and
there are days where you don't have the
willpower and you give in to the alcohol
there are days where you lose that fight
and that's okay right so like be
forgiving towards yourself have some
compassion and just because you've lost
that fight quite a few times doesn't
mean you have to lose that fight
tomorrow or today
and so as you start to cultivate this
the tiniest little victories they will
begin to support you i have no doubt
that this 19 year old person who has a
girlfriend and a cat
and maintains a relationship with their
mom
had many opportunities to not have that
girlfriend not get a cat right they
could have chosen not to do any of those
things
but since they made what i'm sure is
difficult choices because if you have
abusive parents it's like hard to
find a girlfriend and like engage in
relationships and you can deal with a
lot of terror and fear but as they start
to deal with those things they start to
accumulate positive karma around them
and then you deal with a problem like
this and they have support structures in
place
and so for each and every one of you if
you all are stuck
start by planting the smallest positive
karmic seed you can
take whatever tiny action you can to set
yourself up for a better tomorrow it may
it may bear fruit it may not
but you are still going to act
right it doesn't matter how many
mistakes you made it doesn't matter how
many f's you have on your transcript
the question is what are you gonna do
today
and as you take each of those steps
forward it doesn't matter that you've
changed your major eight times and you
haven't been able to find a career so
far the question is what are you gonna
do today it doesn't matter that you're
21 and you've never had sex and you
don't have a girlfriend or whatever the
question is what are you going to do
today and in the tiniest way so a
positive karma for yourself
do five push-ups
cook yourself some dinner eat a piece of
fruit
you know journal a little bit go for a
walk
there is evidence that vitamin d
overwhelming evidence that vitamin d
actually helps your mood
there's less good evidence that plant
aerosols
have anti-anxiety benefits
so if you're struggling with depression
and anxiety and you literally go for a
walk there is scientific
data that suggests that you have
improved your depression and anxiety for
tomorrow
right so each tiny thing that you do you
don't realize what you're doing you
don't see the effect right away which is
why it's great that we have that that
mean post right
you can't let your actions
be dictated
by the progress that you see
you cannot let your actions be dictated
by the outcome
you have to let your actions be dictated
by what you like what direction you want
to go
and the more that you focus on that and
the less that you let go of outcomes the
more you will build like a positive
karmic life which will then support you
and then you'll be amazed at what you
can accomplish